.TH BBSNNRP 8 "16 Jul 1995" "NCTU CSIE" "Kuhn\'s Utility Reference Manual"
.UC E 86-1
.SH NAME
bbsnnrp \- BBS Network News Reading Program 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bbsnnrp 
[\-\fBh|?\fP]
[\-\fBv\fP]
[\-\fBc\fP]
[\-\fBr\fP \fI[prot:]remotehost\fP]
[\-\fBp\fP \fIport|path\fP]
[\-\fBw\fP \fIseconds\fP]
[\-\fBn\fP]
[\-\fBa\fP \fImax_arts\fP]
[\-\fBs\fP \fImax_stats\fP]
[\-\fBt\fP \fIstdin|nntp\fP]
[\-\fBg\fP \fInewsgroups\fP]
[\-\fBm\fP \fImoderator\fP]
[\-\fBo\fP \fIorganization\fP]
[\-\fBf\fP \fItrust_user\fP]
[\-\fBF\fP \fItrust_user\fP]
nntpserver activefile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B Bbsnnrp
is a program to extract news articles from remote NNTP server and
send(feed) articles extracted to another server (remotely or locally) by 
talking IHAVE or POST nntp protocol.
.PP
When startup, 
.I BBSnnrp 
tries to connect two servers, one is the news article supplier
and the other is the article consumer.  

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-h|? 
Show help messages. 
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose mode. All protocol transactions are logged. Default=wont.
.TP
.B \-c 
Reset active files only. Don't receive artiles. Default=will.
.TP
.BI \-r  " [prot:]remotehostname"
Send articles to remotehost. Default=IHAVE:localhost
.I remotehostname 
is the host where you want to send articles.
.I prot 
is the NNTP protocol to send articles to. Current supports are
.I IHAVE 
and
.I POST
.
.TP
.BI \-p  " port_no|path_name"
Send articles to remotehost in port_no. Default=7777. Or
Send articles to localhost  in path_name. Default=~bbs/innd/.innbbsd.
.I port_no 
is the port number you want to connect.
.I path_name 
is the path of a socket file.
.TP
.BI \-w  " seconds"
Wait for seconds and run infinitely. Default=only one shot.
.I seconds 
is the time to wait and greator than 60.
.TP
.B  \-n
Don't ask innbbsd server and stat articles.
.TP
.BI \-a  " max_arts"
Maximum number of articles received for a group each time. Default=100.
.I max_arts
is the maximum number of articles you want to receive.
.TP
.BI \-s  " max_stats"
Maximum number of articles stated for a group each time. Default=1000.
.I max_stats
is the maximum number of articles you want to stat.
.TP
.BI \-t  " stdin|nntp"
Type of article sending (feeding). Default=nntp.
You can feed extracted articles to 
.I nntp
socket strem or to 
.I stdin
directly.
.TP
.BI \-g  " newsgroups"
When get feed from stdin,
.I newsgroups
is the pseudo newsgroup name.
When get feed from nntp, only handle
.I newsgroups
in the active file.
.TP
.BI \-m  " moderator"
You can add "Approved: 
.I moderator
"
to article headers when get stdin feed..  
.TP
.BI \-o  " organization"
Add "Organization: 
.I organization
"
to article headers when get stdin feed.
.TP
.BI \-f  " trust_user (From: trust_user)"
Accept stdin feed only when "From: from-user" is the same as
.I trust_user
.
.TP 
.BI \-F  " trust_user (From trust_user)"
Accept stdin feed only when "From from-user" is the same as
.I trust_user
.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 
.BR ~bbs/innd/activefile, ~bbs/innd/bbsnnrp.log

.PD
.SH AUTHOR
Shih-Kun Huang (skhuang@csie.nctu.edu.tw)
.SH BUGS
Only servers supporting 
.I STAT 
protocol can process 
.I cancel 
efficiently.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR innbbsd (8)
.BR newsfeeds.bbs (5)
.BR nodelist.bbs (5)
.BR bntplink (8)
