.TH NODELIST.BBS 5 "30 Jul 1995" "NCTU CSIE" "Kuhn\'s Utility Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
newsfeeds.bbs \- specify the newsfeeds relation between 
.I News Newsgroups
and
.I BBS Boards
for use by
.I innbbsd
and
.I bntplink.

.SH SYNOPSIS

Newsgroups Boards Server Lists

group1,group2,... board1,board2,board3,... node1 node2 node3

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
When referred by 
.I innbbsd,
articles from
.I Newsgroups
will be received and posted into Boards.
When referred by
.I bntplink, 
articles in
.I Boards 
will be sent to 
.I Newsgroups

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I Newsgroups
is the newsgroups to be received by 
.I innbbsd
or sent to by
.I bntplink. 
You can specify multiple newsgroups separated by  commas ","
without space, for example, "tw.test,csie.test".

.TP
.I Boards
is the boards to carry articles from
.I innbbsd
or sent out by
.I bntplink.
You can specify multiple boards separated by commas ","
without space; for example, "SYSOP,admin".

.TP
.I Server Lists
is the list of servers to be the feed destination from 
.I bntplink
or the source of
.I innbbsd.
You can specify multiple feed destination or source by
specifying lists separated by space, for example, "server1 server2".
.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
.ft B
# This is a sample of newsfeeds.bbs
# newsgroups                boards          servers
#-----------------------  --------------    -----------
csie.bbs.adm.local        admin             news.csie.nctu
tw.bbs.comp.hardware      hardware          bbsroute skhuang.graddorm
tw.bbs.comp.network       network,          null
tw.bbs.rec.comic,         comic             bbsroute
nctu.test,                nctutest          bbsgate  skhuang.graddorm
nctu.test,                nctutest2         bbsgate  skhuang.graddorm
nctu.test                 nctutest,nctutest2 bbsgate skhuang.graddorm
csie.test,tw.test         csietest          bbsgate sk-mail-list skhuang.graddorm
tw.test                   csietest,          bbsgate skhuang.graddorm
csie.test                 csietest,          news.csie.nctu sk-mail-list skhuang.graddorm
.ft R
.fi
.LP

.PP
The server lists can be referred to nodelist.bbs.
The first line specifies 1). articles from newsgroups "csie.bbs.adm.local"
will be received from news.csie.nctu and put in board "admin". 2). 
article in board "admin" will be sent out to csie.bbs.adm.local in
server news.csie.nctu.
.PP
The second line specifies 1). articles from newsgroups "tw.bbs.comp.hardware"
will be received and put in board "hardware". 2). articles in board "hardware"
will be sent out to servers "bbsroute" and "skhuang.graddorm".
.PP
The third line specifies single direction gateway:
articles from "tw.bbs.comp.network" will be put in board "network" but 
won't be sent out to any servers.
.PP
The forth line specifies another single direction gateway:
articles in board "comic" will be sent out to  "tw.bbs.rec.comic", but
won't be received.
.PP
The following three lines specifies single group to multiple boards
gateway:
.IP
group nctu.test           --> boards nctutest,nctutest2
.IP
boards nctutest,nctutest2 --> nctu.test
.PP
The last three lines specifies multiple groups to single board gateway:
.IP
group tw.test,csie.test -> board csietest
.IP
board csietest          -> groups tw.test,csie.test

.SH FILES and DIRECTORIES
.BR ~bbs/innd/bbsname.bbs, ~bbs/innd/nodelist.bbs
.BR ~bbs/innd/innbbs.conf, ~bbs/out.going, ~bbs/innd/bbslog
.BR ~bbs/bbslog
.BR ~bbs/boards

.SH AUTHOR
Shih-Kun Huang (skhuang@csie.nctu.edu.tw)
.SH BUGS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR newsfeeds.bbs (5), innbbsd (8), bntplink (8)
