.TH NODELIST.BBS 5 "30 Jul 1995" "NCTU CSIE" "Kuhn\'s Utility Reference Manual"
.SH NAME
nodelist.bbs \- specify the node list for use by 
.I innbbsd 
and 
.I bntplink.

.SH SYNOPSIS

node[/exclude1,exclude2,...] [+|-][username@]hostname protocol(port) full name

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
You can use 
.BI nodelist.bbs 
for 
.I innbbsd 
and
.I bntplink.
When used by
.I innbbsd, 
it controls the access permission for receiving incoming 
articles and when used by
.I bntplink, 
it specifies the destination user, host, port and 
protocol to contact for sending outgoing articles.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.I node[/exclude1,exclude2,..]
is the nodename for reference by 
.I newsfeeds.bbs
.TP
.I /exclude1,exclude2,...
is used to exclude posts from site exclude1, exclude2,....
.
.TP
.I hostname
is the referred hostname in full qualified domain name and 
optionally with 
.I [+|-]username.  
When used by 
.I innbbsd
, the  
.I [username@]hostname 
is used for access control. Only hosts specified in 
.I nodelist.bbs,
can connect to 
.I innbbsd. If 
.I username
is added, 
.I innbbsd
will consult to remote 
.I identd
and only ident user matched to specified 
.I username
has permission to access 
.I innbbsd.

.TP
.I protocol(port)
is the protocol used by 
.I bntplink
when sending outgoing articles.
Current supports of prototol include
.I IHAVE,
.I POST,
and,
.I DATA.
You can add optionally any number as
.I port
, but only root can use number less than 1024.

.TP
.I full name
can be added for reference. It is meaningful when
.I node
matches to name specified in
.I bbsname.bbs,
and is used for 
.I Organization 
header for every outgoing articles sent out from this host.

.SH EXAMPLES
.IP
.nf
.ft B
# This is a sample nodelist.bbs
#
# default protocol is IHAVE(119)
# default POST and IHAVE port is 119
# name   hostname & domainname  protocol(port)  full name
#------- ---------------------- -------------   ----
my-bbs   bbs.xxx.edu.tw         IHAVE(7777)     My BBS Organization Name
news1    news@news.xxx.edu.tw   IHAVE(119)      News Feed Source 1
news2    news@news.yyy.edu.tw   IHAVE(119)      News Feed Source 2
news3    news@news.xxx.com.tw   POST(119)       News drain Source 1
news4    @news.zzz.com.tw       POST(119)       News drain Source 2
news5    news.aaa.com.tw        POST(119)       News drain Source 3
bbs1     bbs@bbs.xxx.edu.tw     IHAVE(5555)     BBS Feed destination for local
bbs2/bbs.yyy.edu.tw   +bbs@bbs.yyy.edu.tw    IHAVE(5555)     BBS Feed destination for all
mail-list1 user1@serv.xxx.tw    DATA(25)        Reply for list owner
mail-list2 -user2@serv.xxx.tw   DATA(25)        Reply for list owner and remove
.ft R
.fi
.LP
Hosts or user@host in 
.I bbs.xxx.edu.tw,
.I news@news.xxx.edu.tw,
.I news@news.yyy.edu.tw,
.I news@news.xxx.com.tw,
.I news.aaa.com.tw,
.I bbs@bbs.xxx.edu.tw,
.I bbs@bbs.yyy.edu.tw,
.I user1@serv.xxx.tw,
and
.I user2@serv.xxx.tw
have permission to connect 
.I innbbsd,
and you should note no users in
.I news.zzz.com.tw
(specified by node 
.I news4
) can connect, since the user field is null. It is used for 
.I bntplink 
only.
.PP
The node
.I bbs2
indicate every articles received or posted should be sent to it.

.SH FILES and DIRECTORIES
.BR ~bbs/innd/bbsname.bbs, ~bbs/innd/nodelist.bbs, ~bbs/innd/newsfeeds.bbs 
.BR ~bbs/innd/innbbs.conf, ~bbs/out.going, ~bbs/innd/bbslog
.BR ~bbs/bbslog
.BR ~bbs/boards

.SH AUTHOR
Shih-Kun Huang (skhuang@csie.nctu.edu.tw)
.SH BUGS
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR newsfeeds.bbs (5), innbbsd (8), bntplink (8)
